# Introduction

Welcome to the Basis Theory API! You can use our API to access Basis Theory API endpoints, which can get information on managing your tokens.

We have example API shell commands and responses! You can view code examples in the dark area to the right, and you can switch the programming language of the examples with the tabs in the top right.



## Authentication

> Authentication Example:

```shell
curl "api.basistheory.com" \
  -H "X-API-KEY: key_N88mVGsp3sCXkykyN2EFED"
```

> Make sure to replace `key_N88mVGsp3sCXkykyN2EFED` with your API key.

Basis Theory uses API keys to allow access to the API.

Basis Theory expects for the API key to be included in all API requests to the server in a header that looks like the following:

`X-API-KEY: key_N88mVGsp3sCXkykyN2EFED`

<aside class="notice">
You must replace <code>key_N88mVGsp3sCXkykyN2EFED</code> with your API key supplied when you [created an Application](#create-application).
</aside>



## Request correlation

> Correlation ID Example:

```shell
curl "api.basistheory.com" \
  -H "X-API-KEY: key_N88mVGsp3sCXkykyN2EFED"
  -H "bt-trace-id: aa5d3379-6385-4ef4-9fdb-ca1341572153"
```

Basis Theory utilizes Correlation IDs to assist with request tracing, logging, and debugging.

All API endpoints accepts a client-provided Correlation ID if sent with the `bt-trace-id` HTTP header within POST, PUT, PATCH, DELETE methods.

If no `bt-trace-id` Correlation ID is provided by the client, a new Correlation ID will be generated by the Basis Theory API.


## Pagination

> Pagination Request Example:

```shell
curl "api.basistheory.com/applications?page=2&size=10" \
  -H "X-API-KEY: key_N88mVGsp3sCXkykyN2EFED"
```

> Pagination Response Example:

```json
{
  "pagination": {
    "total_items": 924,
    "page_number": 2,
    "page_size": 10,
    "total_pages": 93
  },
  "data": [
    {...},
    {...},
    {...}
  ]
}
```

All `List` endpoints support pagination to allow bulk fetching multiple items. Each `List` endpoint shares a common response structure. Examples of these requests can be seen in [List Applications](#list-applications), [List Tokens](#list-tokens), and [List Atomic Cards](#list-atomic-cards)

### Query Parameters

Parameter | Required | Type | Default | Description
--------- | -------- | ---- | ------- | -----------
`page` | false | *integer* | 1 | Page number of the results to return
`size` | false | *integer* | 20 | Number of results per page to return. Maximum size of 100 results.

### Response Schema

Attribute | Type | Description
--------- | ---- | -----------
`pagination` | *object* | Pagination metadata
`data` | *array* | Query results of the request. See list endpoint resource for response schema definition

### Pagination Response Object

Attribute | Type | Description
--------- | ---- | -----------
`total_items` | *integer* | Total number of items in the tenant
`page_number` | *integer* | Current page number. Should match `page` query parameter.
`page_size` | *integer* | The size of each page. Should match `size` query parameter.
`total_pages` | *integer* | The total number of pages.